                        United States Court of Appeals


                     FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT


           Argued September 3, 1997      Decided November 7, 1997 


                                 No. 96-7169


                Ideal Electronic Security Co., Inc., et al., 

                          Appellants/Cross-Appellees


                                      v.


                  International Fidelity Insurance Company, 

                           Appellee/Cross-Appellant


                              Consolidated with

                                 No. 96-7186


                Appeals from the United States District Court 

                        for the District of Columbia 

                               (No. 94cv00385)


     John W. Karr argued the cause and filed the briefs for 
appellants/cross-appellees.



     Neil L. Henrichsen argued the cause and filed the briefs 
for appellee/cross-appellant.

     Before:  Edwards, Chief Judge, Sentelle and Randolph, 
Circuit Judges.

     Opinion for the Court filed by Chief Judge Edwards.

     Edwards, Chief Judge:  This case involves a claim under an 
indemnity agreement by a surety company, appellee Interna-
tional Fidelity Insurance Co. ("IFIC" or "surety"), against 
the holders of a payment bond, appellants Ideal Electronic 
Security Co., Inc., et al. ("Ideal").  Upon securing the pay-
ment bond, Ideal agreed to indemnify IFIC against any 
losses or expenses, including attorney's fees incurred to de-
fend against claims arising under the bond.  In this case, 
IFIC seeks recovery of attorney's fees incurred by the surety 
in defending a claim brought by Modern Electric, Inc. ("Mod-
ern") against appellants for an alleged underpayment on 
subcontracted work.  The appellants claim (1) that because 
the surety failed to justify the hiring of counsel, no attorney's 
fees should be awarded and (2) that even if a claim for 
attorney's fees is warranted, the surety failed to demonstrate 
that the amount sought in this case is reasonable.

     The District Court found that IFIC is entitled to fees for 
its defense of appellants on the claim brought by Modern;  
however, because IFIC asserted that certain billing state-
ments supporting the claim for fees were protected by the 
attorney-client privilege (and redacted portions of some bill-
ing statements), the District Court reduced the award of fees 
for the amounts covered by the purportedly privileged mate-
rials.  Ideal contends that it was entitled to review all billing 
statements, so that it would be in a position to show that the 
surety's arrangements with counsel were both unnecessary 
and unreasonable.  The surety cross-appeals, claiming that 
the District Court erred in reducing the award of attorney's 
fees by the amounts covered by privileged documents.

     The contract claims arising under the disputed indemnity 
agreement are governed by the law of the District of Colum-
bia.  Under D.C. law, once a party's contractual entitlement 



to attorney's fees has been ascertained, it is within the trial 
court's sound discretion to determine a reasonable fee award.  
In the instant case, we find that the District Court was 
correct in holding that the surety was entitled to claim 
attorney's fees, but abused its discretion in assessing the 
amount due to IFIC.

     Appellants are entitled to full discovery of information 
underlying the claim for fees;  only after obtaining such 
discovery will the appellants be in a position to assess the 
reasonableness of IFIC's position and then present to the 
court any legitimate challenges to the surety's claim.  The 
reasonableness of any portion of the billing statements can 
only be determined by examining all billing statements per-
taining to the legal services provided as a whole.  Appellee 
effectively waived its attorney-client privilege with regard to 
all communications going to the reasonableness of the fees 
claimed when it placed the purportedly privileged matters in 
dispute by claiming indemnification for the attorney's fees.  
Accordingly, we remand the case to allow appellants an 
opportunity to challenge the reasonableness of IFIC's claim 
for fees following full disclosure of the redacted portions of 
the billing statements.  If IFIC declines to disclose the 
redacted portions of the billing statements, then the entire 
claim for fees must be denied by the District Court.

                                I. Background


     The Miller Act requires payment bonding to assure pay-
ments to subcontractors on construction work undertaken for 
the United States.  40 U.S.C. ss 270a-270f (1994).  Ideal and 
its principals, Cora Williams and Kenneth Rogers, entered 
into a contract with the United States to replace or repair 
electrical transformers at the Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center in Washington, D.C.  Since the contract was of a type 
governed by the Miller Act, Ideal was required to obtain a 
payment bond to secure the contract.  IFIC provided bond-
ing for the base year, July 29, 1991 to July 28, 1992.  In order 
to induce IFIC to provide the payment bond, Ideal entered 
into an indemnity agreement in which it agreed, under certain 



conditions, to indemnify IFIC against any losses or expenses 
arising from the payment bond, including attorney's fees 
incurred in defending against claims arising under the bond 
and costs incurred in enforcing the terms of the indemnity 
agreement itself.  See Agreements of Indemnity at p 2, re-
printed in Appendix of Appellee/Cross-Appellant at 21, 25 
(hereinafter "Indemnity Agreement").

     This litigation commenced when a subcontractor on the 
Walter Reed project, Modern, sued both Ideal and IFIC, 
claiming that Ideal had underpaid Modern for subcontracted 
work.  Modern brought this suit in the United States District 
Court for the District of Maryland, invoking that court's 
jurisdiction under the Miller Act, 40 U.S.C. s 270b, which 
provides a federal cause of action for persons supplying labor 
and materials on federal construction projects to collect pay-
ment under the bonds required by 40 U.S.C. s 270a.  The 
suit was subsequently transferred to the District Court for 
the District of Columbia.

     IFIC formally tendered its defense to Ideal, upon the 
condition that Ideal first deposit with IFIC cash or collateral 
in the amount of $300,000 to cover its potential liability as 
surety, including its attorney's fees.  See Memorandum Opin-
ion at 4-5 (May 3, 1996) (hereinafter "Mem. Op.").  Ideal 
declined to provide the requested reserve payment;  as a 
consequence, IFIC mounted its own defense against Modern's 
claims.  Id. at 5.  After discovery proceedings and two hear-
ings, the District Court granted IFIC's motion for summary 
judgment dismissing Modern's claims against IFIC.  Id. at 5-
6.

     IFIC asserted the indemnification claim at issue in this 
appeal in a cross-claim against Ideal and a third-party com-
plaint against Ideal's principals.  On October 13, 1995, the 
District Court denied a motion by IFIC for summary judg-
ment on its indemnification claim.  A jury trial was held on 
April 25 and 26, 1996.  At the conclusion of the trial, the 
District Court granted IFIC's motion for judgment as a 
matter of law pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 50(a)(1).  See Mem. 
Op.;  Order Awarding Attorney's Fees (July 1, 1996).  In 



supporting its claim for attorney's fees, IFIC submitted bill-
ing statements from counsel.  However, over the objection of 
Ideal, IFIC redacted portions of the billing statements, con-
tending that the undisclosed materials were protected by the 
attorney-client privilege.  The District Court resolved this 
dispute by awarding fees only for the unredacted portions of 
the billing statements.  Mem. Op. at 11-12.  Subsequently, 
IFIC filed a motion for additional fees incurred in prosecut-
ing the indemnity action.  The District Court summarily 
denied this motion, stating simply that "the judgment already 
awarded to IFIC is reasonable compensation for legal work 
that was necessary to protect IFIC's position."  Order Deny-
ing Additional Attorney's Fees (July 18, 1996).

     Ideal appeals the District Court's judgment as a matter of 
law on the question of liability and on the reasonableness of 
the amount of fees awarded.  IFIC cross-appeals the District 
Court's denial of fees based on redacted billing statements 
and also the court's denial of fees incurred in prosecuting the 
indemnity action.

                                 II. Analysis


A. Choice of Law 

     Before turning to the merits of the parties' appeals, we 
must first determine which law governs the case.  This 
appeal involves a state contract claim which is in federal court 
under supplemental jurisdiction.  The Miller Act provides a 
federal cause of action for subcontractors and suppliers on 
construction projects governed by the Act to collect on pay-
ment bonds required by the Act.  40 U.S.C. s 270b (1994);  
F.D. Rich Co. v. United States ex rel. Indus. Lumber Co., 417 
U.S. 116, 127 (1974).  Accordingly, Modern's suit against 
Ideal and IFIC was properly brought in federal district court 
under the court's federal question jurisdiction.  Although 
contract claims between the various parties to a case brought 
under the Miller Act may be heard by the federal court 
hearing the Miller Act claim, the appended contract claims 
are governed by state, not federal, law.  See, e.g., United 
States ex rel. J.W. Briggs v. Grubb, 358 F.2d 508, 515 (9th 



Cir. 1966) (local law rather than federal law is applicable to 
cross-complaint under a Miller Act bond);  Western Casualty 
& Surety Co. v. Biggs, 217 F.2d 163, 165 (7th Cir. 1954) (suit 
by surety against general contractors as principals on pay-
ment bond was not an action under the Miller Act, since the 
Act provides only for an action on the payment bond by one 
who has furnished labor and material and has not been paid).

     When deciding state-law claims under diversity or supple-
mental jurisdiction, federal courts apply the choice-of-law 
rules of the jurisdiction in which they sit.  See Lee v. Flint-
kote Co., 593 F.2d 1275, 1278-79 n.14 (D.C. Cir. 1979).  The 
District of Columbia has adopted the Restatement (Second) of 
Conflict of Laws s 188.  Finance America Corp. v. Moyler, 
494 A.2d 926, 929 & n.7 (D.C. 1985).  Where, as here, the 
parties to a contract have not specified which law governs 
their agreement, the Restatement approach requires the 
court to weigh various jurisdictions' contacts with the transac-
tion at issue and to determine which has the most substantial 
interest in the matter.  According to the record, IFIC is 
domiciled in New Jersey, Appellants Williams and Rogers are 
domiciled in Virginia, Ideal is domiciled in the District of 
Columbia, the indemnity agreement was entered into in the 
District of Columbia, and the subject matter of the contract 
(the bond) secures construction taking place in the District of 
Columbia.  On balance, and in the absence of any arguments 
by the parties to the contrary, we hold that interpretation of 
the indemnity agreement is controlled by D.C. law.

B. Judgment as a Matter of Law in Favor of IFIC

     We review de novo the District Court's order granting 
IFIC's motion for judgment as a matter of law.  Hendry v. 
Pelland, 73 F.3d 397, 400 (D.C. Cir. 1996).  We can affirm the 
District Court's judgment only if we find "no legally sufficient 
evidentiary basis for a reasonable jury to find for" Ideal 
under applicable D.C. law, "considering the evidence in the 
light most favorable to [Ideal] and making all reasonable 
inferences in [its] favor."  Id. at 400;  Fed. R. Civ. P. 50(a)(1).



     Under D.C. law, contractual provisions providing for the 
indemnification of attorney's fees are generally enforceable in 
accordance with the intentions of the contracting parties, 
unless enforcement would be contrary to public policy.  Wis-
consin Ave. Assocs. v. 2720 Wisconsin Ave. Coop. Ass'n, 441 
A.2d 956, 964-65 (D.C. 1982);  FDIC v. Bender, 1997 WL 
582901, *3 (D.C. Cir. Sept. 23, 1997).  "Whether an attorneys 
fees award is available is a matter of contract interpretation 
by the trial judge, unless there is an ambiguity that needs to 
be resolved to determine the intention of the parties.  In that 
case, the entitlement question must be resolved by the fact-
finder."  Urban Masonry Corp. v. N&N Contractors, Inc., 
676 A.2d 26, 33 (D.C. 1996) (citations omitted).

     The parties' indemnity agreement provides a "good faith" 
standard for determining whether Ideal is obligated to indem-
nify IFIC for attorney's fees:

     the Surety shall be entitled to charge for any and all 
     disbursements made by it in good faith in or about the 
     matters herein contemplated by this Agreement under 
     the belief that it is or was liable for the sums and 
     amounts so disbursed, or that it was necessary or expedi-
     ent to make such disbursements, whether or not such 
     liability, necessity or expediency existed;  and [ ] vouch-
     ers or other evidence of any such payments made by the 
     Surety shall be prima facie evidence of the fact and 
     amount of the liability to the Surety.

Indemnity Agreement at p 2. However, the parties dispute 
exactly what this good faith standard requires.  IFIC con-
tends that it is entitled to attorney's fees absent any showing 
of fraud or bad faith.  Brief of Appellee/Cross-Appellant at 
12.  Ideal argues that the agreement's good faith standard 
requires something more than the mere absence of fraud.  
Rather, Ideal asserts that, in order to be entitled to indemni-
ty for any resulting attorney's fees under the parties' agree-
ment, IFIC must show (1) that its decision to retain separate 
counsel to defend against Modern's claims was reasonable 
and (2) that the services rendered by counsel were reason-
able.  Brief of Appellants/Cross-Appellees at 7-8.



     There is no clear precedent under District of Columbia law 
defining the scope of a contractual "good faith" standard of 
the sort at issue here.  However, courts in other jurisdictions 
have indicated that, as a general matter, a surety must show 
something akin to reasonable necessity when seeking attor-
ney's fees under an indemnity agreement.  For example, the 
Fifth Circuit, applying Mississippi law, has held that

     [A]n indemnity agreement is not a blank check;  it does 
     not entitle the surety [ ] to reimbursement for legal fees 
     which are unreasonable or unnecessary.  To hold other-
     wise would allow [a surety] to retain counsel and to 
     charge attorneys' fees against the indemnitor even when 
     the surety [ ] does not require a separate legal defense to 
     protect its interests.  The indemnity contract cannot 
     reasonably be construed as requiring the indemnitee to 
     bear the cost of such redundant representation.

Jackson v. Hollowell, 685 F.2d 961, 966 (5th Cir. 1982).  See 
also Sentry Ins. Co. v. Davison Fuel & Dock Co., 396 N.E.2d 
1071, 1074 (Ohio Ct. App. 1978) (rejecting all claims for 
recovery of fees under indemnity agreement's good faith 
standard for services which were simultaneously being ren-
dered competently by the principal's counsel);  Central Tow-
ers Apts. v. Martin, 453 S.W.2d 789, 799-800 (Tenn. Ct. App. 
1969) (probing the reasonableness and necessity of a surety's 
incurred attorney's fees, given the identity of interests be-
tween principal and surety in the indemnity context).  But 
see Wilson & Co. v. Walsenburg Sand & Gravel Co., 779 P.2d 
1386, 1387 (Colo. Ct. App. 1989) (interpreting plain meaning 
of similar good faith standard in similar indemnity agreement 
as limiting defenses against liability to bad faith or fraud).

     In any case, we need not resolve the contract interpretation 
issue because, even if the District of Columbia Court of 
Appeals were to interpret the agreement's good faith stan-
dard to require a showing of reasonableness, or if a jury were 
to find that the good faith standard was intended by the 
parties to include a showing of reasonableness, no reasonable 
fact-finder could find that IFIC's decision to hire counsel to 
defend against Modern's suit was unreasonable under the 



uncontested facts of this case.  Accordingly, we hold that 
judgment in favor of IFIC is appropriate pursuant to Rule 
50(a)(1) with regard to the liability question of whether Ideal 
is required, under the parties' indemnity agreement, to in-
demnify IFIC for attorneys' fees incurred by IFIC to defend 
itself against Modern's claims.

     Ideal alleges that IFIC's decision to mount its own defense 
against Modern's claims was unreasonable because Modern's 
claims against IFIC were obviously without merit and, more-
over, Ideal had offered to defend IFIC against these claims.  
In essence, Ideal contends that IFIC did not need to hire 
counsel to mount a defense against Modern's claims because 
it could have relied on Ideal to defend these claims, even 
though Ideal was unwilling or unable to meet IFIC's demand 
for a reserve payment to cover IFIC's alleged liability to 
Modern.

     This court resolved a similar claim in Carroll v. National 
Surety Co., 24 F.2d 268 (D.C. Cir. 1928).  In that case, as 
here, a construction contractor entered into an indemnity 
agreement in order to induce a surety to provide a payment 
bond for a construction project.  Id. at 269.  The relevant 
language in the indemnity agreement in Carroll was virtually 
identical to the relevant contract language at issue here.  Id. 
at 269-70.  In Carroll, the surety was sued for payment 
under the bond.  The surety, believing that it had no defense 
to the claims, settled the claims and then sought indemnifica-
tion for the settlement costs from the contractor pursuant to 
their indemnity agreement.  Id.  The contractor disputed the 
surety's indemnification claim, alleging, among other things, 
that the surety was mistaken in its belief that it had no 
defense to the subcontractors' claims and that, in fact, it had 
a complete defense.  Id. at 270.  The contractor further 
argued that, since it had notified the surety that it was willing 
and able to mount a complete defense to the subcontractors' 
claims, the surety's settlement of the claims was voluntary 
and thus the contractor should not be required to indemnify 
the settlement costs.  Id.  This court rejected the contrac-
tor's arguments, holding that the contractor's notification to 
the surety that it was ready to furnish a complete defense to 



the claims against the surety did not deprive the surety of the 
right to compromise the claims where the indemnity agree-
ment authorized such a compromise.  Under the parties' 
indemnity agreement, the surety waived this right only on the 
condition that the contractor deposit with the surety satisfac-
tory collateral for the payment of any judgment which might 
be entered against it.  Since the contractor had not tendered 
such a deposit, the surety had acted within its rights under 
the indemnity agreement to settle the claims brought against 
it under the bond and to seek indemnity from its principal for 
the same.  Id. at 270-71.  Similarly, Ideal's offer to mount a 
complete defense to Modern's claims against IFIC did not 
deprive IFIC of its right to mount its own defense against 
these claims and then look to Ideal to indemnify its litigation 
costs.

     Ideal does not offer any persuasive arguments that IFIC's 
decision to retain counsel to defend against Modern's suit was 
unreasonable.  Regardless of the purported strength or 
weakness of Modern's claims against IFIC, no reasonable 
fact-finder could find that IFIC's decision to hire separate 
counsel to defend against Modern's claims was unreasonable, 
in light of Ideal's inability or unwillingness to post satisfacto-
ry collateral to cover the amount for which Modern sought to 
hold IFIC liable.

C. Reasonableness of the Fee Award

     Although it was not unreasonable for IFIC to retain coun-
sel to defend against Modern's claims, that is not the end of 
our inquiry.  The second question at issue concerns the 
reasonableness of the fee amount claimed by IFIC.

     The District of Columbia Court of Appeals has long held, 
and this court has acknowledged, that once a contractual 
entitlement to attorney's fees has been ascertained, the deter-
mination of a reasonable fee award is for the trial court in 
light of the relevant circumstances.  Bender, 1997 WL 582901 
at *3 (applying D.C. law).  Where a claim for attorney's fees 
arises from a private contract provision, such a claim does not 
embody a right to trial by jury.  McGuire v. Russell Miller, 



Inc., 1 F.3d 1306, 1313-15 (2d Cir. 1993);  Kudon v. f.m.e. 
Corp., 547 A.2d 976, 978-80 (D.C. 1988).  Rather, the reason-
ableness of an attorney's fees award is within the sound 
discretion of the trial court and is reviewed only for abuse of 
discretion.  Singer v. Shannon & Luchs Co., 779 F.2d 69, 70 
(D.C. Cir. 1985).

     Even when attorney's fees are stipulated in an agreement, 
the trial court may still inquire into the reasonableness of the 
fees claimed under an indemnity agreement if those fees are 
challenged.  Columbia Plaza Corp. v. Security Nat'l Bank, 
676 F.2d 780, 791 (D.C. Cir. 1982) (applying D.C. law).  A 
contractual provision stipulating how the amount of the attor-
ney's fees award shall be calculated "creates a rebuttable 
presumption that the stipulated amount is reasonable."  
Bender, 1997 WL 582901 at *5.  However, if a stipulated fee 
is properly challenged, "the district court [is] obliged under 
District law to award only reasonable fees, with reasonable-
ness a determination to be made by the judge."  Id. at *6.

     IFIC points to two provisions of the parties' agreement 
which, in its view, limits the standard of reasonableness.  
First, IFIC notes that the agreement provides that the surety 
may sometimes recover disbursements even when there is no 
showing of "liability, necessity or expediency."  See Indemni-
ty Agreement at p 2.  The parties' agreement allows charges 
only for "disbursements made ... in good faith," however.  
Id.  As for attorney's fees (as distinguished from disburse-
ments to settle claims), the parties agreed at oral argument 
that disbursements for attorney's fees can only be found to be 
in good faith if the legal work for which the charges are made 
was reasonable and necessary to the surety's defense.  Al-
though IFIC obviously has some discretion under the parties' 
agreement to decide about the scope of the legal work for 
which it contracts, any decisions to pay counsel must pass a 
test of reasonableness in order to be in good faith.  Indeed, if 
good faith in this context did not include reasonableness, the 
indemnitee would have no incentive to police its attorneys' 
activities and charges, since it could simply dump any and all 
charges billed onto the indemnitor.  Such a result would 
make no sense.



     Second, IFIC argues that the indemnity agreement's provi-
sion that "vouchers or other evidence of any payments made 
by the Surety shall be prima facie evidence of the fact and 
amount of the liability to the Surety," Indemnity Agreement 
at p 2, requires Ideal to indemnify it for the full amount of the 
attorney billing statements submitted.  This argument fails 
upon assertion, for the contract provision relied on by IFIC 
says only that "vouchers" shall be "prima facie evidence of 
the fact and amount of liability to the Surety."  This confirms 
that something more than evidence of mere payment will be 
required if a charge is challenged.  Thus, this provision is 
hardly conclusive with regard to the amount of a reasonable 
fee award, but rather simply shifts to Ideal the burden of 
proving that the fees claimed are excessive.

     IFIC's redaction of portions of the billing statements with-
holds from Ideal information essential to Ideal's efforts to 
meet this burden.  The District Court attempted to resolve 
this issue by awarding attorney's fees only for the unredacted 
portions of the billing statements.  This is not an adequate 
solution.  As a practical matter, the reasonableness of any 
portion of the billing statement can only be determined by 
examining all billing statements pertaining to the legal ser-
vices provided as a whole.  The reasonableness of any one 
entry on an attorney's billing statement is likely to be in-
formed by other charges incurred for the same general 
service.  For example, the court needs to determine:  Has the 
attorney over-charged for its services by expending a ridicu-
lous amount of total time on a simple research task?  Did the 
work undertaken encompass issues and tasks outside the 
scope of the question being litigated?  Was each task under-
taken a necessary and reasonable component of a reasonable 
litigation strategy?  In this case, the general service at issue 
is IFIC's defense against Modern's claims and its related 
cross-claim against Ideal.  Ideal has the right to challenge 
whether IFIC's disbursements for attorney's fees pertaining 
to this general service as a whole were reasonable.

     Ideal is entitled to discover the information it requires to 
appraise the reasonableness of the amount of fees requested 
by IFIC, including the nature and extent of the work done by 



IFIC's counsel on various phases of the case, so that it may 
present to the court any legitimate challenges to IFIC's 
claim.  See National Ass'n of Concerned Veterans v. Secre-
tary of Defense, 675 F.2d 1319, 1329 (D.C. Cir. 1982).  IFIC 
may opt to withhold billing statements under a claim of 
attorney-client privilege;  however, where IFIC's assertion of 
a privilege results in the withholding of information necessary 
to Ideal's defense to IFIC's claim against it, the privilege 
must give way to Ideal's right to mount a defense.  Under 
the common-law doctrine of implied waiver, the attorney-
client privilege is waived when the client places otherwise 
privileged matters in controversy.  See 6 James W. Moore, et 
al., Moore's Federal Practice s 26.49[5] (3d ed. 1997).  This 
court explained the rationale underlying the implied waiver 
doctrine in In re Sealed Case, 676 F.2d 793 (D.C. Cir. 1982):

     Implied waiver deals with an abuse of a privilege....  
     Where society has subordinated its interest in the search 
     for truth in favor of allowing certain information to 
     remain confidential, it need not allow that confidentiality 
     to be used as a tool for manipulation of the truth-seeking 
     process....  [A party asserting attorney-client privilege] 
     cannot be allowed, after disclosing as much as he pleases, 
     to withhold the remainder.

Id. at 807 (quotation omitted).  This is particularly true 
where, as here, a party partially discloses the allegedly 
privileged information in support of its claim against another, 
but then asserts the privilege as a basis for withholding from 
its opponent the remainder of the information which is neces-
sary to defend against the claim.  Accord United States v. 
Western Elec. Co., 132 F.R.D. 1, 3 (D.D.C. 1990) (where client 
placed counsel's actions at issue, client was precluded from 
asserting work-product privilege as to any documents that 
undermined client's position while at the same time producing 
work-product that supported position);  Byers v. Burleson, 
100 F.R.D. 436, 440 (D.D.C. 1983) (attorney-client privilege 
impliedly waived where privileged information is necessary to 
resolve precise issue which party asserting privilege interject-
ed into the case);  Wender v. United Services Auto. Ass'n, 434 



A.2d 1372, 1374 (D.C. 1981) (by asserting its reliance on 
advice of counsel as a material element of its defense, party 
waived the attorney-client privilege with respect to all com-
munications to or from counsel concerning the transaction).

     By claiming indemnification of attorney's fees from Ideal 
and offering the billing statements as evidence of the same, 
IFIC waived its attorney-client privilege with respect to the 
redacted portions of the billing statements and any other 
communications going to the reasonableness of the amount of 
the fee award.  See In re Sealed Case, 877 F.2d 976, 980-81 
(D.C. Cir. 1989) ("[A] waiver of the privilege in an attorney-
client communication extends to all other communications 
relating to the same subject matter.") (quotations omitted).  
If IFIC opts to claim indemnity for attorney's fees from 
Ideal, it must disclose the billing statements itemizing those 
fees in its entirety, notwithstanding its claim that portions of 
the billing statements are privileged.  If IFIC's claim of 
attorney-client privilege would otherwise have been valid, the 
information could perhaps be examined by Ideal under seal, 
but in camera review by the court alone is insufficient.  Thus, 
although "the nature and amount of proof necessary to deter-
mine reasonableness" is included within the trial court's scope 
of discretion in determining a reasonable fee award, Bender, 
1997 WL 582901 at *4, we hold that the District Court abused 
this discretion in failing to require IFIC to disclose the 
unredacted portions of the billing statements.

                               III. Conclusion


     We affirm the District Court's judgment finding Ideal 
liable, under the parties' indemnity agreement, for attorney's 
fees incurred by IFIC in defending against Modern's claims, 
but reverse and remand for determination of a reasonable fee 
award.  Although the reasonableness of the fee award is 
ultimately within the District Court's discretion, Ideal must 
first be allowed an opportunity to challenge the reasonable-
ness of the fees following full disclosure of the billing state-
ments.  If IFIC continues to withhold the information, then 
its claim for attorney's fees should be dismissed in its entire-
ty.



     On remand, the fees denied by the District Court's July 18, 
1996 order should be considered together with the fees at 
issue in the July 1, 1996 order, since all of these fees were 
allegedly incurred in pursuit of the same case.  In addition, 
the court must provide reasons to justify its determination of 
a reasonable award so that a reviewing court can evaluate 
whether it acted within its discretion.  Singer, 779 F.2d at 
70-71.  Computation of a reasonable attorney's fee award 
requires more than simply a report of the number of hours 
spent and the hourly rate.  It also requires the court's 
assessment of, among other things, the time and labor rea-
sonably required by the case, the skill demanded by the 
novelty or complexity of the issues, and the incentive effects 
on future cases.  Thus, for example, the court should exclude 
charges billed for services which were unnecessary to IFIC's 
defense against Modern's claims or its related indemnity 
claim.  See id. at 71 (district court must justify awarding fees 
for work on issues that appellants argue are ineligible for 
compensation).

So ordered.


